and
the death of John Holdup. You could, you know,
they'd take their dead off of the camp. And maybe a
lot of wounded died on the ground later. And they
were killed a week after. How
do you feel about the law? I don't know. I've read a
lot about it. I
almost went a couple years ago. And I'd like to see
it one more time. I'd like to look at it. As far as the
weight anymore, I don't think I would be too
emotional to see it. I
think it was long overdue that y'all were
neglected in the country, recognizing what y'all
did, because it was so different when y'all came
back than when the World War II, World War II people
came back. Well, if you want to read, I mean, yeah, I
was elected in the World War II, so to come, but
you've got Corey in there. Does anybody know about
that? What
do they feel like before they enter? I feel like the
country just tried to overlook. They've tried to
push Vietnam and not talk about it because Because
we won, in other words. And it's like Vietnam, we
didn't win. And so they try to push it off. Oh, yeah.
I think they definitely tried to sweep that under
the carpet. So, yeah. So they don't want to
recognize anyone or recognize anything about it.
They just want to forget about it in the street.
But, yeah, the vet's not letting them do it. It's
pretty strong. It doesn't push the figure. So they
didn't turn it over. in
the meetings here in the United States now, that's
a pretty good group. You can get just 1% of them
hired. They can be hired. And those vets today are
old enough now where they're in to come on in to
politics, politics, and senators. People in
Kansas have to learn to be heard.
Yeah,
if somebody hadn't have ever pushed it, it would
have been one of the quietest wheels that took
flight. Yeah, I think the raw, I guess it's nice,
I'm sure they deserve it. We described it as one of
the main ones. I think the one we have here goes
next. I think anybody that... Is
there a lot of drugs over there, when you were over
there? I
mean, were they readily available? Hard stuff
that's like opium that has some, you know, you
could get just about anything. Yeah. Marijuana.
The opium has just about anywhere you want.
Marijuana. It's big, and I get the hard stuff about
it. I don't know anybody that's been through the
hard stuff before me. I don't know anybody.
Marijuana. Marijuana. I
would say probably marijuana. I
would be afraid to say what percentage, but just my
opinion, probably 90%. That's what happened. Do
you think some of it's harder drugs, because some
of the people had a lot of trouble when they came
back? Probably. I mean, do you think it's the
individual that just couldn't cope, that if
they'd have been here and something would have
happened to them here, then they could, you know,
the circumstances over there were so much more
magnified, but still, that if something would
have happened to them here, it could have. They'd
have had a traumatic experience here. Right. They
did it the same way. It's the type of person that
went so much that they sent you over unprepared and
everything, and that was why. And... I'm
sure there was a lot of boys that probably saw a lot
more bluer stuff than I did. I've seen enough of it.
I'm sure that there was a lot more when I didn't see
many bluer stuff. Anybody that was in the field
didn't have to be scared. I
don't know how I could have made it. As a matter of
fact, I was in the office when I was over there. I
told myself I don't think I could ever go with them.
Then again, I didn't know whether I could take on
life even if I was there. One way or the other, I
would have had to leave. So
they prepared you for that, the Army did? Yes.
That's not the same... Oh, yeah, that... That's
not the same thing, and this could happen to you no
matter what, though. I don't know what I read. I
don't know whether I could just keep giving my
name, right? I don't know. I don't know. I'm just
glad I did. I think the public today is illiterate,
almost, towards the subject. They don't really
know. I mean, you ask people about Vietnam. I mean,
back then, a lot of people didn't even know what
side we were fighting for, who we were fighting
for, why. And today, it seems like in history
classes, you just kind of touch upon it. You say,
OK, Vietnam happened, da, da, da. And you don't
really go into it. You think that the public needs
to be more educated about what happened. that as
overall
that
they're, you know, they don't really know. Still,
a lot of people, you ask about Vietnam, and they're
like, well, it's a world we fought. They don't
really know whose side we're on or any of the
principles behind it. Were you born? I was born in
65. In 65, so it was a few years. As a matter of fact,
basically, what you really... I
mean, I remember
when I was
little seeing bits of it on the news, you know.
Yeah, that's when it was over. But, you know, we
never watched it. I mean, I didn't know what was
going on at the time. It seems like a lot of people my
age, they don't. I mean, it happened during our
lifetime, but they don't know anything about it.
Yeah. Yeah, I've seen that transition of the age.
When I got back, you know, everybody They
were driving cars here back then. Today, some 17 or
18-year-old person passed me by. And I kind of take
for granted a bunch of notes, and then it all of a
sudden gets me. It may not even have been born, but
it was born right at the time. So it's kind of like
being in World War II. It seems like they teach you
that, I mean, in history. You learn the causes, the
who fought for who. You learn all these things
about World War I and World War II. And like Korea,
too. You get to Korea and you get to Vietnam in the
history class. And if you even get that far, it's
just touch and go. Yeah. No, yeah. As...
controversial
as the war was, I think that it should be in the
history. It should be taught. We're bound to learn
something. What to do next time, what not to do.
It's like, you know, in Washington, the political
agenda. If we do this again, let's do it right.
Let's don't do it at all. It's
like the stereotypes just overwhelm everyone.
It's like everybody came back, can't handle life
now. They can't deal with it. That's the kind of
people you hear about. You don't hear about the
people who went out there, they did their job, and
what they were doing was right, and they came back
and they're okay. It's like you hear about the bad.
Yeah. Yeah. I
can't imagine anybody else, you know, in the
world, you know, because I know that Kelly is, you
know, the, William Kelly, the little white guy in
the building. I don't know him. I've seen a lot of
children dead, wounded. They were caught in the
middle of a firefight in the village. I don't think
anybody can lift them, level down on them. But
you also got to consider that you put up
13-year-old kids tonight. They were innovative
when it comes to hand-to-hand, your life or their
life. You know, you make a choice. That's my
nature. As much as I like kids, I like myself, too. I
couldn't let any bad kid make me a bad kid. and
you don't have time to talk about it, I don't do it.
It's not as serious where you just have to make a
judgment as to what you want to do with it. But,
yeah, the stereotyping that we have, I don't know,
I think a lot of the newspapers get that.
We
had the middle class, lower class, very
few upper class white boys. You had a lot of blacks.
A lot of those blacks then were mainly all lower
class. That's about everyone that I was going to
have to admit. uh,
came from the ghetto, uh, with a couple of my good
friends. They lived in Vietnam or South Carolina,
just way back in the spring season. I don't think
we'd ever seen, uh, the city until they were
drafted, and that's where I had them. Uh, in the
mountains of Kentucky, they just, they lived like
snuggish men. Uh, they're just, uh, And
I made, you know, it was a tight group. Like I said,
they had, you know, the middle class on the back.
There was a majority of the good guys, but there was
some rough guys back there, you know, called
outlaws. As
I was driving home after the interview, I recorded
some additional information and some comments
that follow.
At the end of the interview, Craig and I continued
talking, because he took me and showed me all of his
medals, and he showed me a bunch of stuff that he
had, his pictures and newspaper clippings, and he
told me about that... His buddies, they were very
much like a fraternity. Still today, they could
call him up, and he'd do anything in the world for
them. But there's just a bond that's developed,
and that he's not ashamed of anything that he did
while he was over there. That what he did is what he
had to do, and he doesn't regret or look back upon
it. And that he can't say that he wouldn't do it all
over again, because he thinks he would. My overall
impression of this interview was really great. I
was worried when I got there that Mr. Champion
wouldn't say a whole lot because he comes across as
kind of a shy individual.
But as you can tell, once he started opening up, he
just told me about everything. And as I was
leaving, he was talking. He had gone to A&M for two
and a half years. And he said that that the people,
the guys in the Corps were really, once they found
out you had come back from Vietnam, they really
tried to get to know you and they really tried, you
know, they really wanted to know what it was like
since most of them were just about on their way
there. And they really wanted to talk to you about
it and they really, you know, that's all they
needed to know and they were really after, you
know, wanting information. But He said he told me
about one of the corps commanders that he met, and
his last name was Huff. And he said this boy
graduated from school and had just about
everything going for him, and he went to Vietnam.
And right before he was to come home, he was shot
down in his jet and killed. And he said, you know,
It's the people like that that he he thinks about
that he he still he wonders about a lot of people
because he says that this boy had everything going
for him and what if why did it go on so long that if
they could have fought it like they would have how
many lives could have been saved because they
wouldn't still have been there and he looks upon
that and he does he blames the people in washington
i mean that's who was at fault to him
and he says that the people that were the people
that he'll be, like when he's watching a marathon
and maybe there's someone in a wheelchair, he
wonders about these kind of people, a young boy
who's a good-looking kid who had everything going
for him. And he wonders when. Was it at the
beginning that he lost, that his accident
happened, that he lost his legs? Or was it at the
end? And he said he wonders about how many of the
casualties and how many of the wounded could have
been avoided if the war would have been ended
sooner. But he also said that out of all his
buddies, You know, they were, he said, you know,
it's been 20 years now, he said, since he was in NOM.
He says he still remembers it, and he still often
wonders about his buddies that are, you know, that
they were close, and a lot of them didn't make it
back. He said, but he still feels like he could call
up on the phone someone, one of his buddies, and if
he needed something, that they'd do it for him,
because you develop such a tight bond. and he had
blacks, there was black and white, and you
depended on those people to live. And he told me
that he really, he hoped I got an A on my paper and
then it was, you know, that I did good. And I told him
that it really didn't matter what I made on this
paper because the information that I gained just
from talking to him helped me immensely. I mean,
it's helped me enough to help understand and know
more about this war.